In the Web, presence per se is substituted by networked effects of presence. Linked to each other, cybernetic machines enact a complex choreography of calculations, which, in turn, give rise to those effects of simultaneity and connectivity. But is there presence in between the intervals between the electric impulses - the basic elements of this choreography? 
The effects of flow are produced by discrete unit operations. The architecture of microprocessors turns the elusive flow of time into symbols: "yes" or "no", "and" or "or". Cybernetic machines are made of time and produce time. And yet this discrete time, although giving rise to increasingly more complex simulations of presence, is essentially the perpetual present, the flow without the past and the future. 
Networked media allow for the instantaneous mediation. Alexander Galloway calls it iridescence after the name of Iris, the Greek goddess of light. In other words, once we send a message, it reaches the addressee as fast as the light does. The light, hence, overcomes space and time, transmitting the effects of presence in the blink of an eye. And yet the iridescent mode of presence is inherently aggressive: doesn’t it suppress the boundary between individual psyches, You and I, I and the world?
The Web produces presence and disrupts it at the same time. In Freud’s (1921) model of psyche, consciousness is a sort of an interface, or a filter, which mediates between the external world and memory. The role of consciousness is to defend is from the shock of the present: in order of become a Subject, one should learn to forget rather than to remember. The Web’s psyche, on the other hand, may keep the data indefinitely. It gives rise to a perpetual present: an uncanny temporal modality, which neither is there nor not there.
If the Web was a spatial structure, it would consist of non-places in terms of Marc Augé. There are no signs of history there: only liminal and hardly identifiable digital traces of the Other. 
How can one be there and not there at the same time? Isn’t the digital mediation itself uncanny? 
Will the digital traces of presence ever form the face of the Other? 
